Cynthia Breazeal is an American robotics scientist and entrepreneur. Cynthia Breazeal is a former chief scientist and chief experience officer of Jibo, a company she co-founded in 2012 that developed personal assistant robots. Currently, Cynthia Breazeal is a professor of media arts and sciences at MIT and the director of the Personal Robots group at the Media Lab.  Cynthia Breazeal most recent work has focused on the theme of living everyday life in the presence of AI, and gradually gaining insight into the long-term impacts of social robots.

Cynthia Breazeal is the daughter of two scientists, Cynthia Breazeal had early access to the fields of computer science and engineering. Under the guidance of Cynthia Breazeal  parents, Cynthia Breazeal earned a Bachelor of Science in electrical and computer engineering from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 1989. Cynthia Breazeal earned Mater Study in 1993. Cynthia Breazeal earned Doctorate in 2000 in electrical engineering and computer science, both from MIT. Cynthia Breazeal decided to switch her focus to social robotics after watching a NASA robot.
Cynthia Breazeal developed the robot Kismet as a doctoral thesis under Rodney Brooks, which looked into the expressive social exchange between humans and humanoid robots. Kismet, as well as other robots Cynthia Breazeal co-developed while a graduate student at the MIT Artificial Intelligence Lab, can now be seen at the MIT Museum. Notable examples include the upper torso humanoid robot, Cog; and the insect-like robot, Hannibal. Cynthia Breazeal worked on Leonard, Aida, Autom and Huggable in the early 2000s. 

Cynthia Breazeal is a professor of Media Arts and Sciences at MIT, where Cynthia Breazeal founded and is the current director of the Personal Robotics group within the Media Lab. Cynthia Breazeal has written several books in the field of robotics and has published several peer-reviewed articles on the topic. Cynthia Breazeal also serves on multiple editorial boards for autonomous and various other robotic committees. Growing up and while studying in university, Cynthia Breazeal found that the issue was that robots too often only interacted with objects and not people. In addition to this, Breazeal found that if we give robots the ability to perform non-verbal cues, such as those that humans inherently do every day, then humans will treat and see robots more like companions and like humans. Cynthia Breazeal also explores the idea of using robots to build better connections between humans, such as humans who live a long distance away from each other.
Breazeal is also the associate director for the Bridge: MIT Quest for Intelligence, where Cynthia Breazeal works on implementing AI through grade school.
Breazeal has centered her work around the concept of "living with AI" which studies the impact of incorporating social robots into our everyday lives. The purpose of adding sentiment to AI is offering support to people, and creating companionship and support in places where there may be none.
Cynthia Breazeal was named as dean for digital learning at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in January 2022. Cynthia Breazeal will lead in aiding to grow MIT's online portfolio, libraries, bootcamps, and identifying the areas for innovation, while researching opening learning and how different methods and technologies can improve digital learning as Cynthia Breazeal is the dean. 

