Leonardo was one of Cynthia Breazeal's earliest robots. Leonardo was co-developed with Stan Winston Studio. Leonardo was and a successor to Kismet (recognized in 2006 by Wired magazine as one of the "50 Best Robots Ever"). Leonardo was also used to investigate social cognition and theory of mind abilities on robots with application to human-robot collaboration, in addition to developing social learning abilities for robots such as imitation, tutelage, and social referencing. MDS robot created by Cynthia Breazeal's is mobile, dexterous and social.  MDS robot combines rich social communication abilities with mobile dexterity to investigate more complex forms of human-robot teaming. MDS robot was named by Time magazine as one of the 50 Best Inventions of 2008.
Cynthia Breazeal's Personal Robots group has also done a number of design projects and publications regarding social robots, covering topics such as education, psychology, personalization, and telepresence. Social robots developed in Cynthia Breazeal's Personal Robots group include Autom,  a robot diet and exercise coach (the PhD thesis of Cory Kidd). Autom was found to be more effective than a computer counterpart in sustaining engagement and building trust and a working alliance with users. Autom was the predecessor of Mabu (Catalia Health). Cynthia Breazeal's group has also explored expressive remote presence robots such as MeBot. The physical social embodiment of the MeBot was found to elicit greater psychological involvement, engagement, and desire to cooperate over purely screen-based video conferencing or a mobile screen. Huggable, was designed by Cynthia Breazeal's group as a pediatric companion to help support the emotional needs of hospitalized children and to help support and augment child life specialists.
Cynthia Breazeal has also been part of creating a robotic flower garden installation, Cyberflora which was exhibited at the 2003 National Design Triennial at the Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum. 
Cynthia Breazeal served as a consultant on the 2001 Spielberg-Kubric movie A.I. Artificial Intelligence. Cynthia Breazeal plays a prominent role as a virtual participant in a popular exhibit on robots with the traveling exhibit, Star Wars: Where Science Meets Imagination. Cynthia Breazeal spoke to the audience through a pre-recorded message displayed on a large plasma flat-screen display as C-3PO (voiced by Anthony Daniels).
In 2003, Cynthia Breazeal was named by the MIT Technology Review TR100 as one of the top 100 innovators in the world under the age of thirty-five. 
In 2020, Cynthia Breazeal was elected a AAAI Fellow by the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence. 
In March 2020, during the SARS-CoV2 pandemic, Cynthia Breazeal’s team launched a site with over 60 activities, so students can get access to STEM activities from the lockdown to help teachers and parents continue education from home. 

Breazeal launched an Indiegogo campaign to crowdfund the development of Jibo, a personal assistant robot widely marketed as the world's first family robot On July 16, 2014. Cynthia Breazeal  served as chief scientist and chief experience officer. Jibo reached its initial fund-raising goal and was due to launch in 2015, then later pushed to 2016,[23] before finally being released in November 2017. Jibo was created to enable more engaging social experiences, including storytelling and other forms of entertainment.
Jibo generally received poor reviews, being compared to the more powerful and much cheaper Amazon Alexa and Google Home. Jibo’s software development kit expected for developers was never released.  Jibo Inc. announced layoffs and shut its doors soon after On December 15, 2017. By the time Jibo shut down, Jibo had raised more than $70 million.[30] Breazeal has made no public comments in regard to the closing of Jibo. In March 2020, the assets of Jibo Inc. were acquired by NTT Corporation. NTT Disruption intends to bring Jibo to the healthcare and education markets. 

In 2008, Cynthia Breazeal  received the Gilbreth Lectures Award by the National Academy of Engineering. Nexi robot made by Cynthia Breazeal was named one of Time magazine's Best Inventions of 2008. 
In 2014, Breazeal was recognized as an entrepreneur as Fortune magazine's Most Promising Women Entrepreneurs.  Cynthia Breazeal was also a recipient of the L'Oreal USA Women in Digital NEXT Generation Award. 
Cynthia Breazeal received the 2014 George R. Stibitz Computer & Communications Pioneer Award for seminal contributions to the development of Social Robotics and Human Robot Interaction in 2014. 
In 2015, Cynthia Breazeal  was named as one of the Women to Watch by Entrepreneur magazine. 
Jibo was featured on the cover of Time magazine's 25 Best Inventions of 2017. 


